This is jocoponcast number 194 with echo Charles and me jocobwillic good evening
here. Good evening
As a leader
You have to put others before yourself
And that starts at the beginning and it starts with everything that you do
You have to let the men eat first. You have to make sure that they have the gear that they need
You have to let them get rest before you do
That's how it works
You have to make sure that they have what they need to accomplish the mission and then on top of that
You have to make sure that the mission aligns with the good of the troops
This is hard for some people to understand but this applies to any organization the military a business a sports team
And
You have to make sure that the troops understand that there may be short term sacrifice
There may even be the ultimate sacrifice in
War
Men may be killed for the cause
But that cause must be just
And that cause must even in death benefit those who may have to give that last full measure and that that may sound impossible actually
Because how can anyone benefit from their own death and the answer?
Is actually quite simple when military personnel risk their lives they do so to provide
Safety and security for their country
The country where their families live
And those individuals put their families above themselves and as a military leader
If you do see that a mission does not ultimately lead to the safety and security of the families of the people that you do lead then it's your obligation
To raise this up the chain of command and fix it
Then the same thing holds true in business as a leader
You must put the good of the troops above yourself
Now the thing that might seem impossible here
Is that the overarching measurement of the success of a business is to be profitable
And
To maximize profit one of the things that you do is you cut costs and
One of the
easiest places to cut costs in any business is people you
Minimize what you're paying people or you get rid of people and then
You maximize profit
So how can this leadership principle work how can you take care of people while at the same time maximizing profitability and the answer is that you have to look at the long game
You have to see that the stronger you build a business the more long-term stability you build and the more long-term stability build the more stability you build for your employees
And when you're stable that allows you to grow and when you grow your business the employees have the opportunity for growth
And those opportunities
Improve the lives for everyone for the employees for their family and thereby the whole community
That's what happens
But then what happens when leaders that don't put their people first
In the military
it can result in
Operations going wrong it can result in senseless strategies and
In the military it can result in wasted lives and
In business you can see
Another kind of destruction in business. It can mean loss of growth for sure the can mean loss of revenue yes
It can mean loss of jobs
But eventually it can mean the collapsing of
Communities the collapsing of
cultures
Now of course a balance has to be found and profitability must be maintained
But the dollar must not trump the people and
It certainly must not
Regardless of your
Capitalistic goals
The dollar must not trump the communities that built the businesses in the first place
The pursuit of money must not jeopardize the very fabric of the country
That gives us the promise for the unhindered pursuit of that money in the first place
And yet we've seen that take place
We've seen that take place in our own country
In cities and in towns and in states where
Saving a dollar
Man closing a mill and
Man shutting down a factory
In places where making more money in the next financial quarter
Caused leadership to forget the long-term impact
And sell the future of those people for cash in hand in the immediate
And
That
Disease that plague of greed can spread
And it has hurt
various parts of America at various times
And when that's happening while the people at the top might build themselves
A fortune it's a fortune built
On despair and it's a fortune built on destruction and in the end
That will come back to hunt them
Because it is not the right thing to do
Then it does not have to be that way
Because
Because there are leaders who recognize the long-term positive impact of growth and the long-term positive impact of putting your people first
Putting your community first
Putting your country first
And one of those leaders
Happens to be a business partner of mine happens to be a friend of mine
And his name is Pete Roberts the founder of or gin us a and once again
We are in the woods in the foothills of mains western mountains
For our jiu jitsu immersion camp
Which means it's time for us to record a podcast and if you don't know Pete
Then go back and listen to podcast 93 and then listen to podcast 141 and then you can rejoin us here
Because once again, we have Pete
Roberts on the podcast Pete
Welcome back. Thanks for having me. That was powerful. I was just you know you get into that rhythm
And I'm just my head's good. I just catch myself going up and down like shit the way you captured
What you just said is I
Try to say the same thing. I say it differently, but
Man, the impact
You know and how important community is
I know how important it was to new England towns, but it's not just new England towns. It's
All towns
all people and
Man, you're absolutely right. Well with the
With the standard that we're holding it or the
The standard is made in America, right?
We see every single day every single day a corner that could be cut we could make a compromise
And you know what the profit margins would increase. Yep the profit margins would increase a little bit
And and every day
You and I get to see that and you're in it you know you're here you get to see it you know five times a day
Eight times a day you see a decision that could be made you know what hey we could just get this thing instead
And the profit margins go up a little bit and every day you hold the line
Yeah, and I think if you you know like this statement I like to make is well if you if you follow the truck
Back to the source you're gonna end up in a cotton field in the Tennessee Delta region
So if you that that's your standard the supply chain is between here and there like like you said like oh yeah
We could it like building the boots or the jeans a little buttons little brass buttons the leather tags all these things
If you follow that supply chain back
You're touching not just your local community but the thousands and thousands of hands and all the communities in between
That supply chain and I think that's the easiest place
That you could get rid of some of that but it's also the most important if it if you're truly doing something more than
Trying to try to earn your weight at the top right and I think that
In the past you know we thought we've discussed this you know in depth and the past you know and you look at all the free trade agreements on that stuff whatever
Whatever, you know a side you're on on that thing
It was greed it was greed and
The people do the work
You know yeah, there's mines at the top, you know and there's mines crunching numbers and designing stuff
But the people do the work
You know in the beautiful thing that we're doing is we're we're resurrecting
That heritage and I'll tell you what
I mean we've been together now one three years
I think it's been about three years and
Going from I don't know what we started out like what 10 people
I think it was eight people when I when when I came when we merged it was eight people so maybe last year
We had 25 people
There's 50 people now in the factory 50 people
Yeah, you know the and I was telling kind of the crew this the other day when we gave the tour
You know, I'm sitting here saying this stuff right and and I'm talking about being greedy and
Immediately if you go okay, well this guy's not greedy
There's like a there's like a point where you say okay, well, what does he believe it and I actually in my mind I was thinking that because here I am talking about hey you can't be greedy
And then I said listen I am
I am an absolute
Hard core capitalist and I
Love
Deal-make I mean you you get to see me now because we do business
You know, I mean I love making deals. I love making things happen
I love making money like it's great
It's it's it's a it's a it's a great contest. It's a great way to keep score. You know, it's it's fun
Right and I'm absolutely a capitalist but
There's such an easy line to draw so I don't even think it's that hard to draw
It's not like it's the wood's hard decision to make and oh, I don't know what I should do it's like no
You you make money, but you do the right thing and you make sure that you're taking care of people
You're making the right decisions and that's what you do and this is the the cool thing about it
And this is where people make them a sake is in the long run
In the long run you'll do better. It's just like leadership just like leadership
If you're taking care of your people
In the long run they're gonna take care of you and that's gonna be the long-term victory is gonna be better
Then looking for the short term. Hey, I bark it if you work for me and I bark at you and you go and do it right now
Because you don't want to get in trouble
But you're looking for another job even though I got you to do what I want you to do
It doesn't matter long-term. I'm gonna lose and when I'm taking investment away from the people that actually support the community
Where we are then that's just a bad decision in the long run and again short term it looks might look great
Yeah long-term. What does it look like? It's a bad deal. It's a bad deal for the community
Which makes the bad deal for the country and if the if our countries have it hard time? Well guess what what if we got?
100% you've got abandoned mills and factories falling apart in these towns
100% so you just talked about growth. What do what have you seen from a leadership perspective?
You've doubled inside and in size and
I know I said to you the other day as it hey Pete it's gonna get to a point where you're not gonna be able to really
You know when you got 20 people we got eight people clearly you you I mean personal relationship
You want families are eight people right exactly when you got 25 people well now we're talking cousins and uncles and aunts
Maybe you don't know all of them that well and there's probably that one weird you know couple you've recruited all you can
Yeah, yeah like you're there and now when you get to 50 people
Well there's people that you know you're you're just you're just not sure and and you don't seem every day because you're busy
They're busy they're working you're working so you start to you start to rely on
You're trying to rely up more on your
Leadership team to carry the message through the company. How's that been for you?
Honestly, I'll tell you and I don't want it. This just sound like
You know, oh this is this is the the only thing you should go by but
When we did it when we like
When I pushed extreme ownership I had a stack of books and all my leadership and anybody else interested
I didn't just hold it to the leadership about anyone interested in being part of this company longterm
I want you to read this book. I'd recommend you read this book and I had people say well I I don't read
And I'd like cool. I'll pay for I'll pay for yeah, I'll give you cash download it and
You know and it's like well I don't have time. Oh, we'll put the headphones on while you're sewing you know download it
You know and I got I got you so
That
changed a lot
A change it changed me a lot and we've talked about this in the past but the biggest thing is
How important for me decentralized command was the decentralized command
And decentralized command and the biggest part of that was I was telling you this the other day like
70 100 what do I mean well you've got allow people and empower people and your leaders to make
Decisions right and if you can get them to a 70% decision which I learned at the monster also
You know and I took if you can get them there
Man, that's that's a great thing. It's a great example. We're sitting here in this pro shop at the immersion camp to get everything here
It took it took
5 or 6 trucks and I'm talking a 26 foot you haul an 18 foot trailer another 24 foot trailer and it took a team of 20 people to get everything here
Yeah, and I took my wife Amanda to the
The monster and DC and my father on La Jo and
Brian our business partner came and his wife Megan and and we went through it and
When you discussed this
Does it always have to be a hundred percent like I feel like I'm gonna make a hundred percent decision
Maybe that's a little bit of ego talking, you know, but I feel like my decision is always gonna be a hundred percent right
Yeah, and I thought that it was too too dangerous to allow anything less
So what I used to do is I used to
Flank people to buy into my idea
You know to me like a flank of the buy into my idea until they until they could see it
But I had to get them to see it to buy in and now
It's it's different and it's like setting up this pro shop. I know we were it was early in the morning
And we just like man your teams your teams going early right and I was like yeah, they were up at five getting everything set up
And I was like, but I'm not there right now. I'm I'm hanging back. There's a few things I got to do here
To prep and a man is handling it my wife is handling it and I'm like it's the 70 hundred and you're like
What do you mean I'm like you know the 70 percent hundred you're like
Shack
She she called me to hours later. We're good to go. Yeah, I was like I don't think I could have gotten that done in two hours
My hundred percent. I don't think I would have gotten it done in two hours. It maybe would have been another 70 percent
Maybe it would have been 65 maybe it would have been maybe it would have been 80 maybe it would have been an 82 the bottom line any of that discussion
argument
You know planning would have just wasted
Valuable time on both ends. Yep, and but we did do that
We did because I it was the night before I was like
But can you see logistically that coming into this camp in the woods you can't get four trucks in
I'm like you got to be able to see that you need to it this needs to happen methodically
You know, so as this one's unloading and leaving the next one's coming in
So you're saying you did waste time discussing I did I did and then you let it go and then I said go
Yeah, I said I think you've got a good plan. I think that's gonna work
Let me know what you need and I got behind supporting the plan
That's the way that's yeah, so there's a great example of decentralized current and so that's now what you've had to do
with everything and because you can't manage it all because
This is you know we work with that. I saw in front we work with all different companies
But obviously work with startup companies and we see this kind of growth and these are the kind of things that trip them up
They get the guy who's a visionary like you're the big visionary and then you start saying well
I can you know I started this thing when I started this thing I was making every decision and now
I was suddenly look up and if you were trying to make every single decision that was going on the factory
It would be a total disaster oh
1000 percent
What what has necessitated the
The doubling and size this year and it's not just a doubling in people because when you get people what else you need you need space
Yeah, so we got two more buildings. Yeah
Man the new the origin labs facility at the warehouse now. This is super challenged dude
We I don't know if you know remember on the Instagram. I don't know if you saw that echo like all the sudden it was flooded
You know and we had this spray foam because you know this isn't a
Extreme environment right extreme hot and extreme cold during the winter
But we're trying to get everything into the warehouse. It's not insulated. We got to get a heating system in and
You know it's just one of those things where you just grind and grind and grind but we mean to go
Shaded a great deal on that property and the next property is gonna allow us to expand a little more
You know and I think
I think that
I think we're gonna have some challenges ahead of us because we've
Expanded the three locations, but we've almost created a bermuted triangle of sorts the way that we
Secured the locations the facilities it's efficient
It's like lean manufacturing of you know in between the factories
You know the way you can get from you know one point to the next to maximize
Maximizer time, but
You know the lab's facility is awesome and why we fulfill them
500 to 1000 packages a day out of there for filling yeah all leaned out from a shipping perspective yeah and in the next facility which
We'll be moving into what next week
Next week you want to hang out and move some of those machines for those where's our girl
Our favorite fat ass
Where all the the shoe manufacturing machinery will be going and the screen printing and some raw
Robert materials so
22,000 square feet there 17,000 square feet and labs and of course we're chewed up 21,000 square feet currently so
Growing quickly and yeah leadership has been essential
And decentralized command essential in that growth and impossible without it and seeing your and I noticed this from early
You know I'd come up and someone to pull me aside and say hey you know in chapter four
You're talking about this you know and they'd ask me questions yeah and I'd just be it was such a
Great sign
Because when people don't recognize
How important their job is and how important they are as a leader
That's not that's just this is not gonna work
But when someone realizes that they're having a huge impact with every part of their department and that their leadership is the most important thing in that department
When they realize that and they start taking ownership of it
That has an impact and that's what it was good for and I saw that early on I saw that early on you know we did like a little
Little session and
But and people were asking me questions during the session
But afterwards you know people coming up hey I want to want to ask this in front of everyone
But what do you think about this how should I handle that and so the people are aware and that's I think that's one of the things that
Has I'm not saying there's not growing pains because I mean of course there's growing pains but most of the growing pains are are like
Almost like physical growing pains sure you know like when you're when you're sun grows four inches in six months and he's
Says you know hey my knees kind of hurt. Yeah, that's just a physical. Yes. It's gonna hurt. You're growing sorry dude
But as far as you know the psychological trauma of all the you know brain damage about this and that the other thing is very limited right now
Which is amazing to see yeah, it is and you we're talking about people who weren't leaders prior to
Origin you know nobody had a leadership position nobody had a management position
You know and the the leaders that we've built
There they're not entitled to it
You know it's it's weird because you you got people who go through let's say they go to college to be you know business management or leadership
Whatever
There's so much potential and people who just want to work and be part of something
There's so they find so much motivation in that I would rather have someone and
When I do like job interviews I say hey like one of the first questions
Are you looking for a job or are you looking for a career and that's kind of a loaded question right when I hear I'm looking for a career
Okay, we're gonna dig deeper into this conversation now. I'd rather take someone who's looking for a career
that
Has no leadership skills and give them the opportunity because I know long-term
They're gonna be an incredible asset the other company. That's the same theory that we have with EF overwatch
With with hiring vets were bringing vets in look a veteran might not have worked in whatever industry you're in
But that person is hungry they got leadership skills and they got discipline
They end especially the group that we got we got they they study and trained in extreme ownership and the principles
So they they know how to lead and
We're getting the feedback that we're getting is phenomenal because people hire somebody and they go
What they you know they feel like they're taking a little bit of a risk because the person it's you know
It's this person that was in the in the army for
21 years or this person who's been in the whatever industry the the the gas oil industry for 21 years and you think well
We should probably just hire the guy that kind of has experience and we're finding over and over and over again
They guess what you take that person that's really hungry that has good leadership skills
They step into that role they learn the this industry specific stuff and they and they rock and roll and I tell
I tell kids this all the time not not kids, but you know college kids college graduates college graduates
If you're that person that will work hard
You can there's so many companies because I work with so many companies
They there's a drought of people no ones like hey, yep, we got all the good. I've never I have never
Been to a company where they said yep, we got all the good people we need we don't need anyone else
We don't need anyone other good people. I've never heard anyone say anything close to that ever
Even companies where you know people are banging on the door to get in big tech companies that have
That have popcorn machines in the hallways
Open button. I want to work there, right?
There's people banging on the door to get there. You know those big tech companies say they say how do you think we could get better people?
That are willing to go hard
So it's exactly what you're saying if you if you look for someone if you look for somebody
That has that hunger and has that desire and then they actually have to have it
Because believe me there's people like an interview great and say who you love to grind?
What's your biggest weakness my biggest weakness is sometimes I work too hard, right?
That person and then you show up and they're they're in the freaking Twinkie stash
So I'm not talking about people yeah, I sometimes I get in the Twinkies that
I saw you getting in the donut stash today bro. Are you okay?
I'm there and I'm good now
You had like insulin spike your face was kind of sagging
Swagging away
I was like I'm gonna go lay down. Yeah, I mean I can't literally never eat a donut again
If I do I always think there's gonna be someone with a with an iPhone over there in the corner and that's gonna be the viral
The only viral video of jockel won't be something that echo made
You need me the donut
Maybe my video eating a donut that would be a
That would be a major kind of situation that we'd have to discuss yes like trees in us. Yeah, yeah, that would be I've I haven't been betrayed very much
In fact, I've only been betrayed one time
But if that I would consider that
We'd have to we'd have to put that in that mean number that would be a consideration of the trail
Yeah, I don't think I would do but don't worry. Don't forget where I'm out of you. No, that's
The duet of a bottle of all the other things. Yes
How many pieces two pieces? That's good start. How many did you feed me? Oh, dude. I would just kept shoveling your busy
I don't think you even know you're thinking what is what is like the sweet
Like part they're the the moist like they're really like almost wet part
That's like the the honey okay sugar syrup
But you know that's a special recipe. Yeah, you know we were we when we were
We went to Harry's Dine we were in New York City and Harry's steak house. We're eating with Harry in there
We sent him buckle of a
In my mom she she called me and she's like you sent buckle of a
To New York City to a guy who wants a big restaurant. Oh, yeah, she goes you didn't send the recipe did you
And I was like no no, I just sent a buckle like she was upset
Yeah, I had like sent him the recipe to make the buckle of it is it is legit a secret recipe and there's one thing
That she does to make it as good and I'll I'll tell you what it is after the podcast
Yeah, it's no one else does it
It's an old Spartan
That's yeah, there you go. That's Pete's mom's special recipe. Okay, so there's got to be demand there's got to be
Something driving this growth obviously, you know, and it's been a it's been a
continual kind of
Rapid and I'm rapid continual product
Invention for lack of a better work yeah, and one of the things and you and I were talking this morning
I was holding I was putting on a I was getting another rift ghee
And I know not everyone does you do too, but
The rift ghee is like
It's like a complete it's it's like a new product. It's like it doesn't exist until now and it's weird to say that about
I guess it'd be I don't know what's a good what's a clothing product that like completely
Change like it didn't exist and now it does I would say that's easy that that would be the compression shirt under
I'm okay, I'm out with because we both like college football
Remember we had the grades the cotton the culture it's in the cotton shorts and you wore that cotton T-shirt underneath
Football pads and then under our my came out with the the football shirt and it changed it changed again
Now you would you're not gonna play with this old thing anymore never wear anything else again
Right, and that's what the rift is like you're not you're not gonna what you're not gonna go. Oh
Cool, I'm just gonna wear another ghee today because I have it notes. No. I just I'm just gonna wear this ghee
the
the the whole thing is
engineered
brand new yeah, right you I did you it was the football jersey thing like was that an inspiration for coming up with a rift?
I absolutely the because the performance like we developed this poly synth fiber
What I like to say is you know we
We didn't just manufacture it we synthesized this
I don't know I mean like
It synthesized and we you know I don't I don't know if I told you how much money we spent on developing this
You might have kept that for me
I probably just did take Kelly, but you know we we had the I think I told you we had the order
It's a batch of yarn we had and you've got to set up the friggin loom and there's 3,000 ends
Right and it and it takes 60 hours to set it up and and we had to have the yarn spun and then we did it and we're like
It's not good enough
so you have all these
prototypes, you know we've got to get rid of now we've got to get the yarn again
They were like it's not twisted strong enough. It's pilling too much
We need to talk the ends and you're talking these little freaking fibers
individual fibers, you know and well
It's not abrasion resistance enough and so you know
When you take away the garment itself and the cut and the spiral wrap and how it function on your body and you go right back to the fiber
That's where we had the start, you know we had the start from that point and then develop the weave the dragon weave jen three
And it's hard to explain unless you put it on of course you were down there again like king Arthur like the riff to be old
And you put it on you know and you're like
Brown bro
This thing is just ridiculous and that was by the way fresh out of the package
When you take any piece of clothing fresh out of the package it well in my opinion it all sucks coming out of the package
When you take it out of the package, you know this doesn't this thing is out of the package. It's brand new and you put it on and it feels like
It feels like it's been you've skinned a unicorn. Yeah
Something like that so so that's like an example of
product
moving forward
making things and
and this is the the other kind of thing that is happening because of our sport
Stuff has to be extremely durable, right? So you're making something that just doesn't feel good because you can make something that feels good
That has to be durable
And that's the tricky part right because if you look at the way they make things soft or
To feel good against the skin usually what that means is there
Detair you're rating the textile a little bit right they're breaking it down so that those fibers touch your skin and they feel
I'll smooth and comfortable and
We couldn't deteriorate the strength of the garment so we had to find a way to do that with the yarn
Right, that's the keys find a way to make the yarn comfortable and then the weave and then make the garment
Former and body in the way I explain is like if you took a if you took a baseball or a crossball and you took this piece of paper and
You're wrapped it around see if you can get it smooth. Can you get a smooth?
No, you're gonna have wrinkles all through it, right and and that's what basically every gear on the planet is like
All right now if you take that same piece of paper and you just strip it into straight strips and then you start wrapping those strips around that ball
What you're gonna get you're gonna get a smooth surface
That's why we call the spiral wrap because it strips that spiral around your body
You know and seven seven panels and
Yeah, it's innovative. I don't know if there's another it shouldn't exist the garment shouldn't exist. Yeah
So coming off of that and while you're working on that and I'm all this is coming home from a trip
And when I was up here and seeing the factory and being you know just kind of in that
Spiritual high
From seeing our people American people working hard
Like dedicated like passionate about doing a good like just seeing everything in action and I was flying home
And I remember I was laid over somewhere
And I'm sitting in the airport and I'm just looking at everyone while I'm sitting there and I see that
And I called you and I said hey Pete man
And you said yeah, and I said how many people do you know that you that do you jiu jitsu and you're like
Um, I don't know a hundred and I was like cool
How many people do you know that wear jeans and you said everyone and I said I'm in the airport right now
And eight out of ten people are wearing jeans. I remember that conversation
We need to make jeans and you go I've always wanted to make jeans
You said I've always wanted to make jeans and
That was the opening of a whole new
Game right a whole new market and a whole new world
From that conversation what was the next step from there?
You know when we had that conversation
And I don't know you might have told me this fact
In America there's 300 million Americans you know how many Americans actually own jeans
298 million
People own jeans and there's two million communists that don't know jeans
You know it was uh
I knew we could make the product you know and honestly like
I always wanted like I couldn't have fit for a nice jeans as a kid
You know I remember going into like the banana republic or the gab and basically looking at stuff and trying it on and
You know four kids my mom you know 24 thousand dollars a year with four kids
She just didn't have a lot of extra and we would get like one nice thing before the school year started and of course school starts for our kids my daughter started school today
You know and I think about what she has
And what you know the hard what hard work has has allowed us to do for the kids to start school with new
Personacres and some clothes and I think about like jeans have always been important to me because we couldn't afford them
And it was it was always the
It wasn't just the style of it but it made you feel alive it made they made you feel free
You know and they've always represented that I mean in digging into
Denham in around the globe not just America if you start connecting denim you see they represent like freedom revolution independence empowerment right they represent these things and
I was so damn excited you were on board with it
I just like yes, I think it was just like yep
You just need it a little you were like Frankenstein just need a little spark
Yeah, you know when you come safe well, you know as exactly exactly just turn it on because
You know managing you know all these people managing you know the factory a couple of occasions and the growth right
Of course you don't want to make mistakes
You still got to be a little bit naive enough to think you can you can do it though and
I knew we could do it because we've been making this stuff for combat sports
We've been making products that people are yanking on ripping at pulling wrapping around arms and heads with
And I knew we had to set up to make durable goods and
Denham was to me it was like well if we make this it will be the most
Durable jeans ever made because we're gonna apply the same techniques and concepts
We've developed for the past six years manufacturing stuff for combat sports and we're gonna apply the same thing to this
And that's what we did and we just did it man. I mean, I don't even know how to explain
I go I mean we got leaves our pattern maker and we just started having a work and I overnight
You samples send it back where you know in the first ones weren't amazing
They were but honestly like
Got the textile right you know American cotton little bit of stretch
You know modern but still super durable and then we started sewing it together with those
Three needle like chain stitch machines. No, which you just don't find anymore. No, you know
You just don't you don't find it it's hard because if you go with two needles then you cut your cost of thread by
E-sir and done if you go if you go into the store and look at what they actually have
It's usually just one thread. Yeah the scene. You know it's just one one machine
So and it's easy to cut costs like that and it's just like well, that's just not what we're doing so
It was challenging you know, I think it's not just developing the product because you can and this is across the board when you're
Starting something new
Even though we've been making all these geese and and stuff for jiu-jitsu
It's still a different product and they're still style
You still have to have some type of style and you know call that form right well
There's there's like jeans out there and it's all all all all form right and then you've got stuff that's just simply
Function right and the idea is you've got a balance those two things out you can't be too over the top
To extreme it's just like balancing out leadership. I mean, it's it's really the same thing
Formant form function the balance of those two things
You know and we didn't get it right right off. You know and you're like you're like bro this
Yo here in the back, you know the riser in the back
Just just not doing it for me. Yeah, it's weird too for me because I never paid attention to it before right? You noticed that
Oh, yeah, no too much as soon as I got it I was looking at other jeans that I had and saying okay here's what's different
I remember saying I'd be on like sending new pictures or here's I didn't even know what a yoke was
But I realized it's like the part below the waistband where it gives you a little separation between the legs of the pants
And I didn't never paid attention to before my life
But I looked at it was like hey, this seems like it's a lot longer than mine right now
Is there a benefit to that and you're like well here's the benefit and I said well here's the negative
The negative is I got a pack I got a a pocket on my hamstring right now instead of on my ass cheek
Which is where it needs to be form a form in function right so then it's like okay, we can tighten that up so
The the other thing that's weird about it that know that I definitely don't think about
Is when you make it and you say okay, this is what we are going to produce and you pull the trigger on that
Like that's what you're gonna get so it better be good. It's kind of like I do relate in the fact that when you publish a book
And you're gonna print 100,000 copies and
Then you open it up and you find a mistake
That's that stinks and that's that stinks and that's what happened
You know the fur those right behind you right there. Yeah
We went into production and
They're coming off a line right we trained everybody and I thought we were good to go
Initially, but they started coming off a line and we weren't used to working with you
We're used to working with like compression textile because for all the rash guards and stuff we make
But not a woven we're used to working with nits
We've we've never worked with a woven so all of our machines were set up for rigid
Right textiles that don't stretch and
Like the first like few hundred pairs that came off we started to look at them
more intently and
We found that
We made some mistakes and the mistake was somehow it was the the fabric was starting to grow oh
grow it was growing
because
And this is something machines will never be able to do yeah, all right machines aren't people
They can't they can't make adjustments on the fly you can only program a machine to do a task and it can do that one task well
But they can't recognize when there's something wrong and then making adjustment
Right it's gonna do one thing one speed one way
That's a beautiful thing about humans right and in manufacturing to do it right if they want to do it right and that's a that's a key thing right there
They've got to want to do it right because they could just keep rolling even though
There's a problem and just keep cranking and this happens a lot this happens
So you say it was growing what does that mean?
The the textile the garment was growing because it was either being held
Too hard or the tension of the machine and what we found is a mixture of both okay
You know because we're used to making these real you know the stuff for
Jiu-jitsu so you're holding it and and as as they were holding it that the textile was growing because it was a little bit of
Likeering it God it was growing the whole thing was growing so that the 32's were coming offline and they like 36's
So we had to make some adjustments on the fly
To have to change the patterns recut a batch of denim and we just and you know
It was the right move we just didn't release it
We're just like no that's a big tuition payment
That's just it's just gonna be a tuition payment
You know and and push forward I mean and some of them had that is that what calls like the twist in the seam
Yeah, I like to my son has a pair like one of these original ones and
He's you know I look I look at him. I was like yeah look at the thing. He's I got no care
Because he's cool. You think I don't care about what I look like my son is just like don't care
Yeah, then he's like these are the best jeans
I'm just wearing them anyway, so the seam on the outside of his leg
We'll switch forward to his chin in the front. Yeah, we found one leg. We found an old
We got a care an old research paper from like the forties
Leg twist in jeans was the title of it. No kidding
And so what what was the cause of that my old pattern maker Lisa
She's 60364 she found the paper she brought it into the factory and is it as a whole
Research thing like a college research leg twist in jeans
What it is is that as the textiles being woven that it's called a twill and there's
You know diagonal lines if you look at the jeans diagonal lines
In order to cut jeans
Effectively to not get leg twist you have to cut them in pairs and those pairs have to be reversed opposite and we found that out after
Close to a thousand pairs
Yeah, leg twist in jeans
So you talk about manufacturing a product as simple as jeans and I mean what did it take us before we launched it?
I mean we did it fast man like what six months? Yeah, yeah
We're sending me pairs pretty quick just launched. Yeah, so we finally got a figure it out and we got them launched and
I don't I you know if for phenomenal
I don't know what else to say about the product itself, but man those
Those ladies worked I'm saying ladies because our whole that whole floor is all women
between the ages of
20 and
60 and
It's awesome seeing millennials work that want to work. Yeah
Okay, like you know 10 of them on that floor cranking cranking and
Yeah, we're gonna gather and
Just like a beehive man just like a freaking beehive walking in that place in the morning
We're gonna
I don't know if you want me to say this or not about what about two we're gonna make another pair of jeans
That's gonna be
lighter weight now echo Charles. You'll just for your FYI
Mm-hmm the jockel me I am requesting
Lightweight jeans. Okay. Yeah kind of weird that caught on me. Yeah, that caught it. Don't want the lightweight hoodie
Want the lightweight jeans
Can't do you want to know why? Yes, you how many times my legs have been cold you know how many times have been like oh
I don't want to be outside anymore because my legs are cold
And if it's never happened. You know, I used to wear shorts all the you know all year long. They're snowing outside
I wear shorts. Okay, so
Lightweight jeans that'll be the next
Next thing we're gonna make and and we've got a little tie back to my heritage in the navy in the seal teams
because
in the in Vietnam
the
Issued fatigues weren't durable enough for the combat operations at the seals were doing and so many of the seals in Vietnam
War jeans and so we're gonna make some jeans. We've got a cool name form that I will not reveal
At this time
I was like I'm waiting
To pull
But you know the like I said and then we just
The last podcast where do you haven't heard yet that then we just did with a seal master chief name Kirby Horelle who is just as
Completely legit as they come as frog men and
Yeah, you know, he's talking about wearing jeans and mom and so yeah, so we've got that
We've got these lightweight jeans coming. I think that's gonna be and I already have actually already have three pairs
Sorry
Well, I have a pair. I've been I've been testing the goods
Hmm myself so I spent 30 days in Europe last month
I put 200 miles on the boots and I think it was 20,000 miles on the jeans as we traveled
And man those things are getting worn in fading in and just the abrasion of movement and motion in life
It's awesome dude. It's freaking awesome. So
And you know people like why you're so damn excited about jeans
Well, 298 million Americans own jeans
Because they're cool, but it's really what they represent you know and I learned something recently that
You know after the great before the great depression and I can go into an old antique store and you see the
Trunks and they got the stickers all over on the postcards
You know well people were traveling to Europe before the great depression
They were going on vacation for they'd go for like a month or two at a time, right?
And then the great depression happened and
And every everybody just kind of hunkered down and they didn't feel confident enough to go on these
Voyages, right? Ships these voyages
So what they decided to do is go and explore the American West and
What I've heard is that the cowboys out there were wearing
denim blue jeans and
And the idea and I'm digging into this through research is that
That's where fashion and jeans started in the US so the city slickers from the east went out west
saw the free range
cowboys and said yeah and and took that free spirit attitude
Back to the east coast and there you go. I still got to prove it, but that's your theory. Yes. Yes
now
I remember this. How do you remember do you remember like the Berlin wall do you remember East Berlin as well as I do?
I
From my channel. No you know about it. Yeah, yes, I do but I didn't get it. I remember watching the wall come down. It was 89
I was 10 years old 11 years old maybe and I absolutely remember it. I remember
I remember honestly feeling unsure because I didn't understand why these men with these sledge hammers
were slamming that wall with such anger and then elation
Didn't register and I remember the conversation and the house of my parents talking about freedom and communism
and I had no idea what these concepts. I didn't know anything about them
But then when the wall came down and they were accepted into their friends and family watching them come across. I was just like
They've been separated. I just remember that not knowing what communism wanted was or separation or anything. I just
remember that they were they were they were imprisoned basically. Yeah and
Yeah, of course I was there last month so I yeah because what I remember when I was a kid you know at my school like kids would
go on like a school trip
to wherever
England or
Spain or something like that like the Spanish
class there'd be kids that would go on a school trip
and
what people would say is like you got to bring jeans bring jeans you can sell them. Yes, you can sell them
and there was like a black market to get those things into the eastern block country. You could sell a pair of
American you know standard American jeans that cost
$16 at the grocery store at the department store and you could bring them to sell them for a hundred dollars
I remember hearing that
$100 and I had like two pairs of jeans or three pairs of jeans and I'm thinking hey can you take these
can you try and get a hundred dollars for these things and that was
and that to me has always said that those people over there identified
blue jeans like the like you're saying the East Coast you look at the cowboy and said that's the
spirit of freedom right there and you know the thing is is you know when I get into something
I go deep that's why we ended up building a factory in my backyard
but I need to I need to understand more about why jeans represented
revolution anyways we were in East Berlin last month and working on this project doing
some research and I sat down with a woman who lived in East Germany
her dad was a spy and you know they had I and I didn't realize this they had access to the
West in terms of the news and the media and everything it wasn't like they were closed off from that
and I think that might be a misconception they could see it but they couldn't touch it right so it's
almost like like they're they're they're in a cage and they can see what's happening outside
but they can't they can't touch it and so we sat down and we had dinner in this old Russian restaurant
and it was it was like this this scene like you'd see it a movie or something you know with
the yellow lights and all the pictures on the wall and we're sitting there intimate like this
having dinner and she told me about growing up in the East and as she got into the conversation
she reached in her dot and her bag and pulled out her diary from her childhood and she's like
let me show you something and she opened the diary and there was a tag in there a Wrangler tag
and she said this was my from my first pair of jeans and this tag was beat up and worn in
and and her jeans deteriorated but she saved that tag and then she flipped the page and in a
diary she was she had a little bit it this one was name was Anya Anna and and her friend had gone
in New York City and she had written you know in in a girl's diary she had and she has jeans and
she took the pen and she underlined it and she took a highlighter and she highlighted it
and she's like I didn't really understand how important it was to me until you and I started talking
because we had talked the day before and she said the first time in my life I ever feel empowered
as an individual was when I got my first pair of jeans when I was 13 and I put them on
the first time I had only worn dresses what they gave us to wear and I put those jeans on for the
first time and I felt free and if you wanted to still this thing down why it's so important
look at that you know what I just realized so I have a I have a 10 year old daughter and
she's been wearing your daughter might be too old for this trend but a lot of girls right now
that are younger maybe six seven eight nine they were basically a matching kind of whole
polyester like dry fit type outfit like that's the whole thing right like the and it all matches
it looks like a weird tie dye looking thing and you know my daughter must have had like three or
four of them and she would just rotate them like that's just just just what and her and all
of her friends they look like somebody spilled crayons everywhere and that's what that's the
all that's kind of like and I think from a mom's perspective you know it's really easy you know
just there you go you know just wear this and my other daughters and my other daughters took her shopping
and when she came home she says dad I'm gonna go put on some of the clothes I got and she had
she was she came out and she was wearing a pair of jeans and it was her first pair of jeans
believe it or not wow because we live in California there's no we don't wear jeans out there
we were shorts or you're if you're a eight year old girl you wear these outfits these matching
little what is it nylon is that what it is what is it I don't know this P wear those things
yes okay yeah like a weight is that a romper yeah romp yeah well it's like that but it's all it's like a
woo it's just an outfit and every little girl yeah super a lot of it so my daughter comes out of
her room and you know she's 10 you know and she's tall for a 10 year old but all of a sudden she
had jeans on it and I could see now that you're I'm connecting you know she looks so
proud and you know kind of like she was standing on straight like she was now in you know
in the big leagues kind of and she you know you know that time you go through your life
for your like I'm a person yes she looked like she had that kind of I'm a person I'm an individual
I'm a I'm a person I got I'm I'm here confident yes I'm here yeah the I'm not mom is
little girl anymore now you're here and how much of that comes from my daughter's going you need to
get jeans you know what I mean you need to get jeans yeah that's in my kids that's in my kids
psyche that you you know what you get jeans and that's when you become an individual human
ready to take on the world that's so cool and it's crazy because it really does you know it
really does like it just you know when you wear something like and that's the that's the important
I mean it's a it's a beautiful thing really you know to that you can be empowered by something on
your body you know and and people say well that's that's not it's not important you know what you
wear well it's really not important what you wear but it is important how you feel about yourself
you know it is important how you project yourself you know I mean if you if you're working
for a restaurant front going somewhere you know do you wear a teacher if you go on Fox News what
do you put on yeah I put on suit why because that's what you put on that's right right
I think that's important I think the next time I might be going on I might be wearing some orange
jeans boy this is what I this is something else I just realized think about this okay
do you have a you get a pair of slacks right get a pair of slacks what's another word for that pants
trousers trousers or whatever you get a pair of pants those if you just get a normal pair of pants
whatever they they'll change a little bit over time but basically the change that they go through
deteriorates them and they're no longer usable but jeans are different jeans wear and they become
comfortable and they come to your body they like they like they wear them or not yes they wear
S they wear in not out but they become yours like you can't if one if you have a nice pair of jeans
that's broken and they've had for a while and something happens to them you have to go get another
pair and you have to go through a period of time where you they're not quite your jeans yet and you know
what's crazy is is that woman on you I was I was with she told me she's like you know
they they tried to make jeans because eventually you didn't have to smuggle them in any more eventually
you if you knew somebody outside they could ship you the jeans if they could afford them right
so they became so popular that East Berlin government decided East Germany government decided
we're gonna make jeans and they did they made jeans and I picked up a pair of those jeans I
found someone who had a pair and they weren't jeans they didn't know how to weave the text out
and they couldn't figure it out so what one of they were they just like some weird fabric like
it was a weird fabric and it wasn't even in the go died so they would never they wouldn't even
fade in they would just like blue material yeah it was it was crazy so it failed miserably and she
said so the the government imported a million pairs of American jeans and they sold out like
the like the day they arrived that's the kind of thing where you realize that's why communism doesn't
work yeah because the state can't figure it out you know but individuals can't so give them some
jeans and let them run wild now okay jeans we got that we might have gone a little bit
I don't know we little ripped but hey all right now the other thing you said is you put
miles on boots yeah now this is a little bit of a reversal role where I said you like hey bro
everyone wears jeans you said to me hey man we need to make boots and that made me that made me
nervous because I look at boots I said hey man like these are everyone's feet are different
it's hard to make and it's you got the sizes I mean they're you can't hand them a pair of boots like
boots are what size they are and and and people's complain about blisters and you know in a
seal platoon everybody wants a different kind of boots so I was definitely more hesitant on the
on the just the product itself and then on the manufacturing to me it just seemed like crazy thing
and you you're laughing I don't know if you remember this you were laughing you were like you were
laughing you like bro it's so much easier to make boots and it is to make to to weave fabric on a
loop yeah and I think some of that laughter was more like I'm ready for the challenge you know what
I mean like this is the thing is is you know and just in full transparency you know you and I
had a private conversation at the end of the last year and like okay what are we gonna do you know
what are we gonna do to grow and we wanted to make the investment you know of our profit and put it
back into the company and and we're identifying where we want to grow right and what's going
to have the biggest impact on the community but also what the community can handle right and we
know they can handle making denim blue jeans and I knew the community could not only handle but
but if we could make footwear again I just need to clarify this when you're talking about the
community what you're talking about is the actual community within which you live within which are
factory is within which we have a pool of people that's the community that actually have this skill set
and that's the part that I didn't appreciate and as soon as you you were like hey because I'm thinking
how are we gonna make shoes you said we got the people and then I remember growing up of course
who is up here all these massive shoe manufacturers were up here and I said oh yeah obviously okay
check run exactly I mean shit I mean new balance is still in main doing some stuff
Nike used to be in main you had you had basho you had dexter shoe you had Hayden shoe
Allen Edmunds I mean you had all these brands and one of our employees Christine she actually
was the one who went to the Dominican when the free trade agreements went into play and trained them
on she was the best little waist stitcher in the country she trained them how to use that machine
so she was part of let's call it a brain drain a skills drain right where the skills need to
go away well happens when they go away she's the only one left with those skills right and I had
identified a few people with those skills and these old shoe dogs one of them was Bart Hershey
you know and the sold guy Roland land and shoe dog is the name of that book is that a term
anyways shoe dogs yeah there's a book written uh yeah it's by the guy that made Nike exactly yeah
shoe dog but that's a common term he didn't coin that no no that's what these guys are he was
part of that god all these guys helped him get started this guy Roland is the one that
helped Timberland start he's the one that had the machinery and the knowledge to get
Timberland so they could mold a soul onto a leather offer he he developed that and so I had all these
old timers who I had just honestly I didn't give an opportunity not to not to meet me like I just
go to their factory calm on the phone you know show them what we're doing and getting front of them
and then finally we started building relationships and this this one guy Roland I went over there
and and he had to get rid of some machinery and we did some kind of negotiating and I was like
what do you what do you want you know yeah I got to figure out what somebody wants yeah you know
we ended up negotiating he's like can you do a lobster bake from my staff and I said yeah
he goes take it all loaded up a tractor trailer of machinery a small if I can 20 foot you know
and a couple weeks ago Joe my father learned I and a few other guys from the factory went out
and cooked his whole staff a lobster bake lobster bake for old shoe machinery but these shoe dogs
so shoe dog is the term that is just used it's a general term for someone who's been in the
industry for a long time but you know as we were talking at the end of the last year and you know I
kind of put your I guess concerns that ease a little bit for sure for no it's like we can make shoes
you know we don't have to reinvent anything even though we need to build it from scratch there's
a difference there you know if we're going to like try to figure it out and not have the knowledge that
would be one thing but the knowledge has only been it's only been removed for 20 years right if it
had been removed for 50 years I'm not going to say it's impossible but I would have taken a lot
larger effort and a lot bigger a lot more costly tuition yes the tuition in the effort right now
has been great and and the expenses been great I mean we're in month 8 and this week we're finally
ready to really launch as you saw the factory the other day but you're talking about okay
Jocco Jocco's blessing you know the teams on board what are we going to do I had one person
one person Henry and he'd been in the industry for 40 years and he started January first
I gave him a piece of paper with how I wanted the boot to look and I said this is what we want to build
now just just so you know everyone understands I know you get it that we're talking about starting
something from scratch all right we don't have any machinery we don't have asses and seats which is
my way of saying human resources we don't have the workflow we don't have the raw materials we
don't have the patterns we don't have the dice zero I gave him a piece of paper with an
illustrator drawing and said this is what we want to make that's crazy not really not really crazy
because if you can see when you when you see people work together we're each one has a skill set
in in and I know this is like on the seal teams like I'm sure when you did operations and
everything was just moving it's like a perfect but it's like a Russian ballet it's like a perfect flow
of organization right and I had seen it in the rest of the factory and how we did the rest of the factory
and that's why I knew we could do it but I also knew that the challenges of building something for a foot
you know that that a foot everyone's feet are different and they're they're they're they're
odd shaped they're asymmetrical you know it's a strange thing a foot a new we're going to have
challenges asymmetrical they're not the same they're not the same I knew we were going to have challenges
and I know I haven't told you about all the tuition payments but I'm going to tell you I'm
going to tell you about the couple that I'm in skip what happened all my money so we we got into it
and you know and we made some boots you know to start off but it was all you know Henry with an
exacto knife like hand cutting everything whatever we started building the patterns they weren't
perfect so you got to imagine like eight months we're now into this thing eight months
once once we actually got a boot of course he started with a 14 wrong and that would bite us
in the ass six months down the road that was that was the tuition payment I wanted him to start with a
14 because I wanted to wear it first not knowing that six months down the road that would be a
mistake because you never grade grading is how you scale everything you never grade from your
largest size you always grade from the middle from the middle size yeah so I should have
I should have made your size first you should ask me too because if you just asked me that question
I would have said oh yeah because you probably lose a little bit of you lose a little bit of that shape
and the what's the word the ratio the ratio the ratio is as you go up exactly that's what grading is
yep so we needed all those things patterns to fit the foot leather we needed the knowledge of course
clicker dies to cut the material but most of all we need shoemaking machinery so which these are very
specialized machines incredibly specialized materials very specialized in it wasn't feasible to just
buy new stuff you know I mean would it have been smartest to buy all new machinery yes yes it would have
been interesting it would have been smartest if we wanted to take that risk and don't that amount of
capital in it I was gonna say because it doesn't seem like that would be real smart exactly but you know
what I knew I knew that Henry used to be a mill right and that if we could just get decent machinery
even old machinery that was running he could keep it running and our little proof of concept
called bringing back shoe manufacturing and Franklin County main if we could prove that concept it
would be only a matter of time to be able to invest in in that new machinery so that's what we did
we talked about how much is gonna be a lot alright let's do it so I ended up calling this old
time or mo he's the one that found our first loom so I went back to the source mo this is what I want
to do and he's wild you know this guy he he told me a story you you have heard of Dexter shoe of course
there was a man named Harold Alphan no Harold Alphan built Dexter shoe he built it he was working
at another shoe company he built it by loading up machines that weren't being used like in the
during the night time into his station wagon and driving them to a mill in Dexter he basically took
the machines that were like the abandoned machines from the southern factory and he started
a factory and he built an empire alright Harold Alphan he got bought out by Berkshire Hathaway
they had a contract that when Harold Alphan died they could move Dexter shoe out of Maine
Harold Alphan died a few years back they shot the factory down and moved the down of Maine
this shit just it man it gets to me it gets to me
mo told me a story about Harold Alphan because mo's dad was an old shoe dog and he made the
parts for the machine and he said let me tell you something you're gonna need my help doing this
this is what I do this guy Harold Alphan he started this factory and he couldn't he wasn't
getting it it wasn't making any money and he called my dad and he said can you come up to the factory
and this is back when it doesn't matter if this small time or trying to build this this shoe company
hasn't even started selling product yet it's in the hole maybe has a handful of employees
this guy's most dad drives up to Dexter two hours sits in front of Harold Alphan and Harold Alphan says
can you buy these box of parts back from me I'll buy them back from you in three months
and his dad said yeah I'll take them back took the parts back gave him the money three months later
Harold Alphan bought him back this guy's worth I don't know a billion dollars now but this
this thing of sitting in front of somebody and having a conversation and building relationships
what I found in this shoe making thing is the most important thing because these are still the
guys running it the same guys running it in the in the in the dudes these shoe dogs that have been
in the factory helping us combine age 88 90 and we've probably had a dozen in there and you should
see their freaking eyeballs when they walk in they don't want to leave honestly on occasion
bringing tears to their eyes that that this is what we're doing because they saw it they were part of
it and they saw it leave and just that spark man like you know I'm honestly just hit me
it's me right in the feels man that spark they see it's motivation and I absolutely knew that
were there support it was going to be possible and so we've been grinding this the first pair of boots
that that I got that you sent me the first pair of the boots you sent me it was better than the first
pair of jeans you sent me that that was a shocker to me like it was like take them out of the box I was like
no way this is ridiculous and and you know you're like hey there's there these aren't perfect
from sending them just so you can look at them and I was like no I'm wearing them I mean I was wearing
them out of the box comfortable crazy that was crazy I was like bro what's wrong with your jeans
dude you got like we had to figure out how to make jeans you know I mean we're as we had the
knowledge base to make the footwear like it was still here you know and man I mean these guys
came in and they just like dumped their knowledge on but Henry Henry being the key in this guy
mole and so I'm like I need machinery so he found all the old machinery overseas he brought it back
over on a purely bringing machinery that's been shipped overseas you're along with the jobs
literally we're bringing it back to America you know actually happening actually happening
machines designed in New Hampshire and it machines designed in Massachusetts manufactured
right there bringing them back these old machines and Mo refurbished them and now they're in the
factory and it's badass so what's the where we out right now I know we have the the leather for
400 500 pairs yeah you know we we connected with the tannery that's 45 minutes away that's
nothing about supply chain right there's one tannery left in Maine and they just happened to
manufacture all the leather for the military boots so we went up to them and they're like we'll
we'll help you guys however we can so they're tanning leather for us they're tanning seven styles
leather and it took a while to get it right I mean it's you gotta remember like leather like text
styles depending on how it's tanned it can be you know it can stretch more be more rigid and not
form right it can wrinkle you know there's all sorts of shit that can happen that that's really bad so
anyways we have to get through all of that and we have to get through that and make sure the patterns
were right and then we ordered the dies and we started cutting and it was wrong because
we had graded them from the 14's so we may have lost 10 or 15 grand on dies I know but
but we we reordered the dies and now we've got them working but yeah so we have probably 500
pairs cut ready ready to go and we lean many facts out the line and we're in the process of
training the young folks now we have a young girl Nikki she's 19 another guy who's in there
Christine and Henry those two combined experience like 80 years you know the little way
stitches telling you about and Henry and we're like literally once you and I have a conversation like
hey we should we turn it on we'll just turn it on we'll turn it on and we need to turn it on
in the factory right now before we move it you know to the new plan because it's got it's got to work
there first we've got to have the proof of the concept worked out but man I put I put a ton of
miles on those boots and man they're wearing in nicely yeah nicely so it's it's a classic
it's what boots it's like boots that's what they are their boots boots man you know what they
go well with jeans yeah I love the fact that we like we we're calling the jeans legit fit
you know now while we're doing all this meanwhile I'm out starting jockel publishing you know
I have a I'm like hey man by the way I've got you know whatever I'm gonna be I got 100,000 books
that you know I'm gonna need to get moved from place to place we have a fulfillment center
like you're like yes we do and boom all of a sudden next you know we we got a fulfillment center we got
the warrior kid three we got Mikey the Dragons there you're we just absorb that it was like
it was one of those things that I'll give me the freedom to tell my publisher watch this on
publishing you know I got a publishing company now watch this and to have the freedom to be able to
do that was phenomenal because I knew I was like okay well I can make this happen because they're
looking at it going how the hell where where are you gonna we're gonna store 100,000 books how
you gonna politicize books who's gonna you we jocke or you're gonna be in a warehouse somewhere
palatizing books you know while you're trying to write another book and do all the other stuff
that you're doing that's not gonna work so they're in the back of their mind they're thinking
I'm an idiot yeah thinking it's impossible which is which is a common theme around here people think
things are impossible and you know I there's another thing I was saying the other day and you were
that you kind of reminded me of this of when you started down the path of hey I'm gonna make
keys here and I'll put something they're telling you people are telling you it's impossible to do this
some people are possible to do this and the reason that that that that that that propaganda is out there
is because the big corporations the best answer that they can give to the American people and they say
hey why are you shutting down this factory the best answer that they can give us oh it's impossible
to manufacture here that's what it is it's impossible to manufacture here that's their answer that
way they can save an extra 32 cents per item by having it manufactured in China where they
where they they still have to pay shipping they still have to pay customs they have to pay to get it
over there's all kinds of but it's not like they're saying it's not like all those laborers
only get a dollar a day so therefore we're saving 80 or whatever 12 dollars an item no they're actually
we'll all be at the costs they're saving 32 cents an item by paying somebody over there a dollar
a day and by taking a job from an American sending it overseas so the best answer that they can
can give isn't well we want to make an extra 32 cents an item the best answer that they can give
is this is impossible to do here can't manufacture in American anymore that's what that's what
we are being told we're being lied to America's being lied to and I honestly feel because of the
podcast I feel like you've made what we're doing and main the tip of the spear I mean and main
is shaped like the tip of the spear which is even more badass and it is old school in the
England it is which is even more badass but it's not impossible and like if you look at like
we're here at the immersion camp I was sitting down with a woman she's in California we're
sitting on the side of the mat she's from California she's a cop and she's just talking to
me about her struggles about media and how they're making her out to be and her you know and
folks in law enforcement and everything and and she said you know she's like what happened and I
said and just clicked I'm sitting here looking at this mat full of 100 200 people from all
different creeds skin colors backgrounds jobs from farmers to huge businessmen scientists
to surgeons all on the mats for a common goal to train and learn jiu jitsu isn't that what
America is together for a common goal isn't that how this country was built isn't that how New England
was established when the immigrants came in together for a common goal and it's literally happening
right in front of me and I just I just connected into it and I was just like what what's missing
well I can see here that this is all about minds and hands right jiu jitsu you know learning jiu jitsu
it's not hard it's hard on your mind it's hard on your body it's hard on your hands you know
and and manufacturing is is the same thing it's it's the same thing and and just
understanding like and I know you know you're from Maine and Connecticut and New England and we both
are and understanding where we came from and what was sacrificed so that we could get here
I feel like we've abandoned that you know and I feel like jiu jitsu is like a spark you know looking
at those matches like the spark like whoa wait a second I bet there's every type of political
affiliation on the mats right now yeah for sure I've got unbelievable that these people are here
smiling and just and just sheer enjoyment maybe jiu jitsu can solve the world's problems
and I don't know but but I do feel like we've abandoned so much well also when you take a kid
and your kid says hey I want to do this and you tell him you can't do that what does that do the
kid what does that do the kids kids well that's what we're out right now you can't do this you can't
do this in America and another thing is when it's like I want to build something you can't do it
think about that you can't do it and that isn't attitude that used to not even remotely
exist in America we were busy putting men on the moon and building the best cars and the best
ships and the best planes in the world and winning wars and getting after it and all of a
sudden we're looking around going oh you can't you the what's the fundamental for all that stuff
built built built something and all of a sudden you're being told you can't build something
the oh you have to manufacture overseas they manufacture better no no this is our blood we build things
and when you take that away from someone what do they got it's wrong it's just wrong
so I actually I actually like a little bit of the propaganda it just helps what we're doing
we can just sneak up behind these folks and choke them out yeah the and it doesn't stop there
we're going we're in a war on all fronts you know we got on top of all this we got origin labs
yeah and we've put out tons of of new products and origin labs from but you know whatever
being echo talk about that all the time the new products and new products but from a business perspective
I think one of the biggest challenges has been the go ready to drink in a can again
it was one of these things where hey we want to make a drink that gives you energy but is not
freaking horrible for you yeah which which which may seem like that's impossible that's impossible
because you need it to taste good so it's got a have sugar you got to have it not be refrigerated
so it's got to be have a bunch of chemicals in it to keep it from going spoiled and then you got to
put 8 billion grams of caffeine in it so at least convinces a person that's drinking 10 billion
and grams of caffeine a day that this is actually hitting them so it's all these hey that won't
work no no no and that was the first thing how do we actually make something that I could look
at a person and be like you should drink this it is good for you to drink this it will help you
in your life and your brain and your athletic pursuits right now that's a big step it is
you know and what's funny is like I remember the last conversation before we actually pulled
the trigger on making a decision and you were like I'm not compromising we're changing the category
like this is poison you know the this category the energy treatment category the energy
treatment category it's just straight poison and we're not conforming to the standard and you
you made like it it's going to be as far as the caffeine thing when you kind of set that bar
like I was I was on board you know and and I you know the thing is it's like I'm not a big
caffeine drinker but and I know you're not a big caffeine drinker but literally like I would never
ever allow my kids to get an energy drink are you kidding me yeah ever I think if I gave my kid an
energy drink there would be mayhem in the world mayhem yeah so you know I mean just just being
able to make that decision we're not going to conform and we're not going to compromise you know
I mean that that started the challenge you know but and the other big one was was how do we
make these things stay fresh right out the normal chemicals that they add to all these drinks
that keep them fresh to keep them for being spoiled and we're like let's do what they do with
my mood milk pasteurizing pasteurization and so how many other drinks are there that you go
into a store or you order or you pop open a can and it's pasteurized what's the number of drinks
like that I think the number is zero yeah the number is zero again what's the what's the business
decision the business decision well it's going to cost a lot more yeah it's going to cost a lot more
to pasteurize these things it's going to cost a lot more to use monk fruit instead of whatever
the freaking cancer carcinogens that they just pump into those things no we're going to use the best
ingredients so all those little decisions along the way hey we could be wrong actually we could be wrong
I'm it's worth the tuition payment I was going to say if we're wrong at least I'll be able to sleep
exactly and I think that's what when you're distilled it down that's what it that's what you get right
is you know you can cut corners in the way you start at this you can cut corners here there the other
place but what is the right thing to do you know like with the genes what's the right thing to do
well build the product that's going to last lifetime that's actually the right thing to do that
will never fall apart right and it's the same thing with with all the nutritional stuff because
there's so much junk and you know my son's 16 I will only let him take malt for protein or
reward kid either one of those I'll let him take I'll let him touch any of that other shit he's
going to be 17 my daughter's turned 14 you know it's like there's things they're exposed to and
there's propaganda in this industry pushing this poison at kids and honestly like they're at the
point where they're mobile you know I know your son's mobile too where they're making decisions
stopping at the store grabbing things to drink grabbing snacks and I actually I'm on them all the time
what'd you eat today what'd you pick up at the store what'd you drink today you know I'm on
them about it because they know how important it is to me that they make good choices
with the occasional you know double cheeseburger at my dogs which I may partake in once in a while
but yeah there is a you don't usually find that in in the categories and in this industry
in the nutritional you know you just you find people looking at those things and
I think that ultimately ultimately honestly without your podcast I think it would be almost impossible
I think it would be almost impossible without without you explaining the people what's going on here
well then you might as well have said it's not really the podcast to people that are listening to the podcast
sure it's not me it's the people that are listening to podcasts that go okay yep
we're on board that's what it is yeah and so thanks to everyone that listens to this podcast
because otherwise we wouldn't be doing much of what we're doing right now no absolutely I mean
did you get all these like you know these Netflix specials and stuff you know and like what makes you
fat or like the truth about sugar you know or you know all these things there's all these new
so there's there is kind of awakening I guess I would call it and awakening about what you're
putting in your body it's happening it's happening and I think you're a part of that awakening I
think you're a big part of that awakening letting people know hey you got to watch what you're
putting in your body but I'm gonna make something that I want to put in my body you know and I
think that's a you know that value proposition that you'd sound reliable you know it's
undeniable and we're not gonna compromise on that that's undeniable and if it doesn't work out at
least we did the right thing that's undeniable yeah it's like chasing the truck back to the cotton field
that's where you're gonna end up so you can't argue with it yeah I think it's the right decision
my wife the other day I came home and she says do you have a vitamin exponder or like a high
speed blender do you have those young blend tech is it okay one of those like big high speed
blenders oh like the ninja I don't know but it's a big like it's almost like an industrial blender
okay so I have one of those and the other day but I normally don't use it because I just use a
shaker cup right when I'm making some milk of whatever flavor so and everyone in my family just
uses a shaker cup occasionally someone decides to kick in the the the Vitamix so I come home the other
day and my wife goes you know she's like oh hi hi and then she says I had strawberry milk
in the Vitamix and I said and and she said she said this it's the best thing I've ever tasted
in my life so my wife said she is seriously and you know she just she said it was so frothy
so frothy so frothy and I said what did you have it she goes just milk and milk strawberry milk
and when I saw it because my wife you know she's a she's a world a worldly person I guess you know
she likes to kind of find pallet and she likes different kinds of things I'm not that right
for me to be like this tastes good that has limited merit right can I share the wooden sword
thing the wooden sword was wooden sword that's so I can I can help assist painting the picture
of Helen go ahead we're in your like hey we need to build a wooden sword we're on the phone
of the day oh we need to build a wood sword we need to build a wood sword do like a special for
for my king the dragon's little wooden sword and I wouldn't shield in the back interaction
jocco that's about barbed wire I died laughing that's barbaric because I want a little
kids to have shields and swords and wooden which is not so much we just like the only thing I
played with until I figured out that there was a machine gun then I had a machine gun right
what did you think is a great idea for we should do that for like this Christmas or something like
build wooden swords with a mic and a dragon shield yeah if it would dragon on it yeah be bad
attitude if I was a kid and I got that yes I'd be chopping at everything yes I don't know that
because I mean we had wooden swords as kids yeah but and then they turned them into foam yeah I was
gonna say that's the thing is now they may come from because then you can't hurt anybody which I get
maybe you need to maybe need to parent your kids and say hey Billy don't hit Jennifer
in the head with a wooden sword like don't do that it's called parenting let's try it or you just
put a helmet on him and put foam everything put him in a padded room and now we don't have to worry
about it you don't have it anymore so shit all that stuff together I mean it's it's growth
right now when you look at the growth right now I mean do you see any hesitation in the growth
zero do you see acceleration in the growth yes are you are you nervous
I think I I don't know if nervous is the right word you know I mean number one I love the process
and I hope the process never stops I don't I mean to think of something ending like what we're
doing I just you know I say well you really have four decades of opportunity and I've told you
this before you know one of my advisors John I have to introduce you to you next time we're farming
ten said hey hey you've got four decades of opportunity you know your first 20 years you're learning
you've got 40 years to do and then hopefully you enjoy the fruits of your labor you know and
and I'm in I'm in the second decade right 20 to 30 30 to 40 turn 40 February second decade like
the process man the process is what gives me excited being in the game you know not standing
on the sidelines not being a former player watching you know the new blood play you know I love
being in the game you know and and I think that to be in the game you're gonna be a little bit
nervous you're gonna have butterflies because that's what being part of the team is that's
what being in the game means and if you know and if you don't have that then you you're arrogant
and or maybe you're complacent right but if you're in the game you've got to feel that thing that's
driving you to get up every morning you know and and I love it I love it you know that's
truly my passion is being in the game not what the not not winning the game not winning the
championship not looking to to an end goal like if we achieve this we've won you know it's it's just
it's just if we achieve this what can we do next exactly where can we go from there exactly
I look at one thing that I like doing and I like being a part of and one thing that I like
about working with you is it doesn't seem like I can say hey I think we need to do this and I know
that it it's gonna be really really hard but we can do it and you're like oh yes we can you know
as opposed to the nine reasons or the twelve reasons or the forty seven reasons why
well you know there's this problem there's that problem there's that problem
I never I never hear that from you I know you don't hear it from me it's hey this is where
we're at this seems like it would be crazy to do let's do it yes here's how we can make it happen
yeah and to touch on that and the fact that there has been this propaganda delivered to our minds
over the past twenty thirty years whatever it's been I was talking to a woman recently and she's
the one that saved that first alone when when the Chinese came in and they purchased up this
mill when loosened and made and they pulled everything out she saved this loom I had her on my podcast
actually and it's Rachel and the biggest thing that that built the infrastructure for the New England
mills were the canal systems and if you pulled the stones out of like the canal system in
Lewiston you could build another great pyramid if you pulled the granite out of these canal
systems you could build another great pyramid think about what they did a hundred years ago
in Lewiston Maine they built a great pyramid in the form of a canal system and they did it
without technology they couldn't look up leg twist in jeans and solve the problem right we can
so to say it can't be done I'd never say that we've got technology we've still got people that
know we've got jets that can get us you know you can jump in on a jet blue flight and get to Europe
in eight hours or twelve hours if you need to go see how something works or if I need to go to
California if I need to just drive to low Massachusetts I mean you have the opportunity to travel
quickly you're not getting on a boat on the ocean and that's what they were doing they were transporting
this stuff with horse and buggy on rails across the ocean and you're telling me it's impossible
are you freaking kidding me this is the easiest time we've ever had to do this and that's why it's
not crazy because of what we do have we're fortunate to be in a day and age where we can get
information like that you know it's just a matter of putting hands and dirt that's what people are
scared of you know they don't know how good calluses feel if they did and it'd be a different
it'd be a different world right now so again fortunate and and being in New England being in
this part of of Maine knowing that that feeling may have been abandoned or the people may have been
abandoned and showing him no you haven't been abandoned actually this is cyclical and we know that
we're still the best at this let's just make it happen again let's get back in the game let's get back
on the field let's make it happen again just being part of that let's get to work let's get to work awesome
seems like a good place to wrap it up echo Charles yes how's it going over there pretty cool
speaking of getting to work yeah we like to work in various various modalities yeah I've never heard
that word really modalities yeah and I love expanding vocabulary explain it to me different modes
different modes yeah modality different modalities one modality might be we want to get smarter
right we want to train our brain right we want to train our our our a real bit capacity sure we want
to train our defensive capabilities yes we want to train our strength we want to train our reflexes
I mean we're just want to train in a bunch of different modalities do you know anything that really
helps across a broad spectrum spectrum of modalities like that echo Charles yes and what would that be
well one is jiu jitsu what the energy and immersion cap immersing immersing our self right that's
the word right immersing yes yeah immersing ourselves you know everybody's ripped off immersion camp now
oh really oh yeah yeah yeah yeah all the the who's who of jiu jitsu were doing immersion camps okay
yeah well good flattering that's awesome yeah no it's also more people are training yeah immersing
themselves in jiu jitsu because yes very useful as a modality of improvement for sure
mental physical anyway we're here vocabulary vocabulary modality is vocabulary modality
well I'm just saying we are apparently we're improving our vocabulary tonight across the board
yes using immersive modality immersive modality yeah yes yeah so you know you talk about the new
riff-gui I agree 100% every element that you brought up 100% echo I'm going to interrupt you
even though this is your time not an I's our time got you did you know what we did
for you the last four days did you connect the dots oh wait no if I no you know you got a
ge when you got here yes you know who else got those gees yeah juggle what do you mean what
color was it back did you see anybody else got a blackie juggle kind of well's
I don't know all the other instructor all the other black belts oh if you had if you had
peripheral vision would you know by the way you wouldn't have known wasn't what was about the
happy juggle right there yeah yeah yeah this was he was concerned yeah he goes if I give
echo this do you think he's gonna know and I was like no I'll just think that it's the
camp gear something yeah oh me back oh got his black belt by the way for anyone that's listening
that didn't hear this yet we'll do a whole podcast about that we we made 15 blackies for the
expert the black belt experts you being wonderful yeah and speak holy stuff thank you
come on don't leave you hand so cool so cool and it's funny because it's like you
to and you know juggle told me a few other things you know this and it's like you know
like when you watch fight club you know here watch I'm a little bit too much you know like you're
like oh I didn't want to look at you oh yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah and you know at the end of
fight club this is big like you know what he called you yes right then you watch it again you're like
oh I see all the little bit that same you start connecting stuff I'm experiencing right now
if you guys don't the last we talked about the riff key black or otherwise that is a reinvented
scenario right there yeah really good and the thing is I do prefered no key over key but then
after even that other one the other the one that I got because I got a riffed in another one that
looks it looks different but it's different but it's also it's the same material yeah yeah yeah
that was special we yeah yeah it's a special thing the same material the same
same material the dragon we've gently we've gently we've just yeah I think that's the primary
mover in that key feeling so good yes I get that the cut is also a factor yeah but the bigger
factor that's that material the textiles ridiculous well because like I'd say like dries as you sweat
yeah that's a weird thing and you can put it in the you can it's dry it's basically dry
when you get done with the spin cycle final spin yeah yeah final slint layers when you get done with
that then it's almost dry right then you could you could put it on the mat so that's it for anyone
that had a knee before like in five years people be like oh yeah used to suck you staff to like
dry these things for eighty minutes to get dry now everyone's gonna be oh that was to be horrible
you know it was like oh when I was a kid I used to have the phones were attached to the wall
oh people like oh that's very horrible you know there's like oh I used to get my gear in the
dryer for an hour and a half to get it dry oh that must have been horrible now we can
trim it into the softening of society by making no we can trim more now it's true there we go more
jack you got saving power it's it's green right that's green yeah yeah to get a rift key
yeah it's in there so yeah green there to get to unless it makes me want want to do more ghee
just that little push and I think that's something this is what this is not what you have
someone that is very focused on comfort a little extra comfort goes along with that
you're just so if anyone's wondering which they aren't I would assume they are not wondering
what get you get you get an origin geek it's not just the rift it's a whole spectrum
while you're here okay I'm gonna give you some scenarios I just started you Jitsu I'm not looking
to compete I'm gonna train three times a week my budget is tight what ghee should I get I would go
with a comp ethletta okay which is still gonna give you the performance or we have that warrior
line which is a lightweight ghee but it's it's more built for warmer environments you know the
comp ethletta really is the right ghee to go okay yeah I'm I'm training six times a week
I'm gonna compete I have a tight budget six times a week you want to compete tight budget
I'd still go with a comp ethletta okay at what point do I step up and get a rift
at what point do you want to improve I'm gonna tell you honestly right now if my budget was
tight I would wait an extra two months and get a rift yeah it's a game changer product you know it's
not it's hard to explain man like it like when you're underneath somebody you know like we're
an old ghee let's say you're underneath somebody inside control you've been sweating the whole
match your 10 minutes in and you need to like elbow escape or hip out and your arms stuck inside
the sleeve because of the abrasion of the the text what you're gonna feel is free you know so it
gives you an advantage in that regard if you want to feel free on the mats even when you're
getting crushed and smothered get a rift all right it's an advantage it's it's a way to cheat the
system yeah okay yeah it's a whole comprehensive it's a whole period yeah yeah exactly like the
reason you're like no ghee so much is you like that right the freedom of movement and everything
and you know it's almost provides that for you you know we need to engage your version of covering
up his arms as well well because it's a massive yeah all right also we got what we just
talked about jeans or jeans order those up we got t-shirts we got other clothes and we got
supplements take it yeah all the different supplements yeah so I had I got the new
which we haven't talked about yet cold or yeah yeah is that for a reason or we just now we're
talking about it now okay boom so I got some that cold cold war krill oil joint warfare good snack
these are like the the the pre requisite supplements this is like to keep you in the game like
it doesn't matter you can have you can have huge strength all this stuff but you if you can't
keep yourself in the game like if you're on the sideline because injuries whatever you're not
moving correctly you're sick all this stuff doesn't even matter so anyway I had that line
I had it dawned on me how these are the most important supplements that there are in my opinion
yeah because without them you could possibly not be in the game yeah you can be the strongest
guy but you're not even in the game you know you can't roll because whatever your neck is sore
it's a whole lot of the joint warfare and I'm almost ready to go there you go you know you
did to chocolate we were telling you how the cold the cold war came to be because he was getting
off the airplane or something or you were traveling a lot yeah just what I'm like guys
there was almost got sick I need like a hyper boost of you know all the stuff that prevents
you from getting sick yeah and Brian's like cool let me pull me figure it out yeah we ran it
and then I tested it and I'm like okay I've been traveling whatever it was six weeks no sickness
that's like when I say sick you know you you know when you travel in the just like your nose
you just you just like wake up your mouth tastes like crap yeah you feel like you're about to
get sick yeah that I got like that yeah I don't like that it's pulling you maybe not out of the
game but it's infringing on the game it's kind of jamming fringy yeah for infringement oh yeah
so there's all that stuff also what mook mook look to say you don't need mook um okay maybe
maybe that but you kind of need mook so that seems like that is the greatest name ever mook yes
I mean it's you know there's this borderline you know like just you know we were talking the other day
about this borderline genius oh yeah just the worst idea on the planet yeah mook is in the genius
got to go right you know what I mean I mean it's it's it's genius mook yeah it's uh it's fitting
and it it is inspired by mook itself yeah mook came first and then mook came you know you
are in the the drink came yeah and it was so good I remember telling you guys this is not a
pro this is not a protein just like a protein yeah this isn't a meal replacement right this is
it's own thing and and it's taste to me like mook I think the influences in there for me
were the monk fruit yeah right mook mook right and then kind of like Hulk right because I knew
we're going to mint green and then of course motorhead mook over the oh because that's just legit
yeah and they asked lemme why he put the umla over oh in motorhead and he said because it look cool
like that was his answer all right yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
there's the full story on it that's the full story umla umla I thought so it's not an emulet
is that a different emulet umla umla and emulet is not like somebody where around you're
yeah like a little thing I thought that those crystals and emulets maybe no umla umla yeah that's
funny you're like and when you do it put put put the umla above it put the two dots I was like
I don't know how to put I don't know how to do that on the computer you're like hold down this
key and press this and it's like mook was born you know mook was born it's gonna be a pretty
importance part of my texting somebody texting someone I like my phone auto corrects like
mook to mo oh umla okay all caps that's where the auto corrects you in the right row right
mook so that's all that extra doesn't do that yeah you can change it and mine also the other
thing I have when I write jj it turns into jitter so that way I don't type about jitter with a
hyphen in there every time you know you got to change the keyboard and I tried jj and it says
jjitter gotta be honest I didn't know you could do that yes you can so there's a
probably the two that you actually need just mook and jjitter because you type mook so off and
I type jitter so off and because even like responding on Twitter it works so I just said jj
jj jj it's just so you must get a lot of questions like what do you need to be successful in life
yeah like mook and jj jj jj it's super easy yeah cool also disciplined by the way
yeah yeah yeah yeah not say disciplined and I will say that is it cheating that today
I'm going on how many hours of sleep hmm none yeah not a lot and and I was tired
coming when I said today I have as all planning I was like okay tonight I'm gonna go to bed early
oh and I'm gonna sleep and I'm gonna wake up and I'm gonna feel great and I said to you
I'm gonna record tomorrow you're like well tonight in my in my mind I said to myself damn
that sucks and then you but I would never like reveal that I'm gonna say no I'm kind of tired
I'm too tired to record a podcast no not that so but I in case you can tell us any
of those kind of tired coming in and then I drank some of the B
yeah yeah that's a good chance to say yeah well but yeah the discipline is coming along way
you know we have the powder of course yeah right and then what pills
yes powder pills yeah during yeah the discipline goes tonight I wasn't gonna have a go
tonight yeah and then I was like I'm going on Chaco podcast yeah I need a little later you need
your A game yeah A game but Dave Burke Dave Burke good deal we recorded yeah as a matter of fact
we recorded the two podcasts back to back and then took a couple days off and then recorded
another two back to back and then before each podcast he was taking two discipline go and he's just
like yeah 100% he's like I'm bringing my A game watch this did you want to know something that
like feels real good my son came in and he was meeting with your with Dr. Luke
I wanted him to learn a little bit about you know medicine because he's a student medicine
and he stayed for lunch at the immersion camp here and he went up and he saw the the go
cans all out in ice so whatever and he's like I dad can I have one of those and I said for sure
have it you know that's the first time that's ever happened yeah because he's asked me in the past
he's I've he's come up to the counter with like a red bowl yeah like a monster something
I put that shit back you know you know and I was like for sure man had grab one you know
it was good it felt good to be able to do that and feel confident about it how do you like
it yeah he liked it yeah oh for sure yeah I'm getting energy anyways because that's what I
will be 16 oh yeah he's on dude you know he was he he him and his friend would like
because they had hands off two weeks ago before double sessions for football and they
wanted to come out of surfing so bad and I almost called you yeah I just didn't know how crazy it
was it was just like I wouldn't literally call him and like hey I'm sending the kids out to
California to go surfing I should have my son would just take them yeah they he would not be
responsible for their safety because you know he's another 16 you're not going to be a person
and jumping off a cliff to do whatever they would have done it yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
anything else oh white tea chocolate you don't get like that chocolate you always yes very good
certified organic by the way you know and you can literally lift 8000
pounds which is a loss of the way double blind we ran out of jocco white tea the second
pay you can't we brought enough for the week I don't know how many pallets that was we brought
enough of the week the director here called me said we only have a case of jocco white
tea left yeah so yeah we had another we had some more delivered it's nice to be up here having
a giant warehouse with it is a resupply well you know we we figured how many cans oh we're
gonna give away that it was like oh everyone has you know one or two a day like 5000 cans
you're gonna go through 5000 cans this week on the house come to the immersion camp get some
free jocco white tea all right big that also jocco as a store store of his own online store
jocco store dot com is where you can get you know discipline equals freedom represent while you're
on the path all right just pick them sweet them shirt with his head on it says good also short
without his head that says good if you don't uh if you don't like my head yeah I saw somebody
I guess that like your head oh yeah all the way to the station that said that said hold on it said
echo look jack he walks like I was like is that a jocco store tea should
yeah is that a jack was like no that's custom all the way it's not it's not jockel store approved
but it's approved 100% yeah she's far down at gold looking jack there was another guy there's
another guy that had a good shirt on not approved it's ripped off the gcm no but that happens at
feel bad and it's got well if you see on amazon there's a bunch of like rip off and one of them
is like the whole good speech right and it just says good really big but then everything else is really
small and it's just an amazon you know somebody's making tea spring or whatever yeah like yeah
so anyways and I I actually didn't say anything to him yeah as I you know I can't be like bro
yeah you got it on approved but yeah watch out for the counter fits yeah yeah but hey he's in
away he is repelation his intention he's in charge of his insurance insurance that's why I'm not mad
his intention is good you know I'm not mad at him right I'm just mad that someone's yeah some
insurgents so they're trying to train it they know what can happen to insurgents actually
do not know what happens to insurgents they get killed yeah should they do but yeah we got some
lightweight hoodies a lot of reform my lightweight uh yeah no here in main by the way all right we're in
main it's summer exactly right I'm that's what I'm saying I mean it's not here you have he
had the function function function even though lightweight hoodies do have function aesthetically
and raw functionality I'm just saying does that lightweight hoodie show your biceps yes
I like that you were 100% honest right there yes yeah yeah it's true because it's like it's good
it's that I you know I know and you know and I know you appreciate the lightweight hoodie
I do because it has fashion I do value yeah I think a lot of people I don't wear it as well
as you yet but I'm working on my biceps again yeah he looking good by the way thank you many people
have approved that hoodie while I had it on I approved the lightweight hoodie they liked lightweight
okay so there's a lot of us like the lightweight lightweight yeah I did like veto it it's also
completely awesome anyways hats hoodies all kinds of good stuff jocquistore.com the
rash guards we're the rash guards made by the way oh American made oh by none other than
or origin main or genuus a just or yeah subscribe to the podcast also subscribe to
Pete's podcast your podcast is called Hands and Daylight you talk about
various jiu jitsu things you talk about business things you talk about history things
would you say your podcast is kind of like my podcast minus war yeah it would be more around like
taking back America versus war but the struggles of you know from an industry angle yeah I would
say yeah and it's a lot of storytelling you know and oh it's pretty it's pretty cool yeah no it's
it's a great podcast it's called Hands and Daylight this podcast is called Jockel podcast echo
doesn't think you've subscribed yet if you haven't echo is disappointed he would like you to subscribe
right now well you know let's put kind of strongly but yeah cool there you go subscribe it's cool it's
good to subscribe I'm saying
what was that talk about what to say smash the subscribe yeah that's like a joke with everybody
I was watching some youtube video today they were test driving a car and it was a pretty
good video like they were they were entertaining guys they were funny and I was like oh these
guys are kind of cool like this is these guys are cool and it's a good subject you know you're
like watching they're given I mean I like cars right everyone likes cars right in their test driving
car and I was thinking I was actually thinking of echo and I were doing this would be kind of fun
like remember when we test drove a car I was test driving car you happen to be with me yes
and it was kind of fun right yeah yeah now imagine if we there was cameras in there and we were
just talking about how cool that car was right and I was thinking that I was like oh this is pretty
cool it's good and then in the middle of it they just start going and by the way if you you know
smash the like button and subscribe to us right now and go check our Patreon account and I was just
like I stopped the video because they came at me like that so we have a joke or we joked about
and then I overused the joke where he was he said he got told me live like hey that's not funny anymore
so I was just about to do it again and that's constrained myself and see it's really comes full
circle then now it is still kind of funny because he missed his own of a joke you know
and then there's a word you're a kid podcast too so don't forget about that for your kids and don't
forget about the Irish Oaks Ranch.com young Aiden making soap on his farm with American hands
has got us and American goat run in a business he's now 13 he started it when he was like 11
so cool he makes that soap so you can stay clean you tube you tube video version of the spot
guest ones he would Pete looks like big tall strong man masculine guy I'm just saying you're big
you know handsome whatever you know you be the one but nonetheless if you want to see what he
looks like yeah we have a youtube channel jockel podcast youtube channel also some excerpts on there
you know cut up the podcast I like what you've been doing lately with everything I like the
content you know polo's excerpts snippets out and it's awesome do you prefer if it's just like me talking
or do you prefer if I talk while things explode in the background yeah I do like I do like
both but for me I like when you're talking but for echo I like when things explode like when
you're like that's a good idea hopefully they don't like pull down you're post on they're post on
Instagram but like the other day when you're like oh yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah that trigger
running on the trigger running yeah sure you're warning yeah yeah yeah I love when you do that stuff
right I'm good so I'm gonna keep that up and the more explosions the more better that's what someone
told me yeah right out like cool jockel says cool stop I get it but the way I kind of kind of
distilled it down as far as like the format is if you're seeing something important and it's kind of
longer than one minute I won't put any explosions on it cool okay under one minute explosions and
flames by the way we got psychological warfare little moments of weakness that you might experience
during your day in your brain in your own little brain little debates that are happening the weak
voice versus the strong voice sometime the weak voice gets stronger and it needs to catch a beat
down that's when you press play on your iPhone that little psychological warfare track that tells you
no you're not gonna skip leg day you're gonna go get it psychological warfare that's MP3 iTunes
Google Play all those MP3 platforms if you want a visual version of that that you can hang on a wall
functional graphics are go to flipside canvas dot com decoder my brother
he's making these canvases and you know what they're made? oh they're made in America
yep that's right what about what about our friend DAC yeah so can we talk about the special project
is there any reason not to know let's do it go well decoda decoda Meyer you know you got a helicopter
yes he's like he's like girl that's what he needs I know he's like bro you and Brian got to come
down to Texas I'll come and pick you up I'm like cool I like get your license first
maybe it's gonna be one of those kind of helicopters that didn't know it freaks me out the
that kind of helicopter when you go into it I've been in number four they seem like you remember when
you built a model when you were kid you did you ever do a build a model when you were kid it was
little plastic pieces and they stuck them together with test testers glue yeah it seems like
this is one elevation above that just one it seems like someone made this thing out of little
right a vector set pieces that's what it seems that's what those helicopters feel like when you get
in them and when you find them that's what they feel like if you don't like flying you're not going
to be game for that especially with decoda track I will declare you as the climb plus you weigh
900 pounds so that would be like flying lopsided people he is a savage and we're actually going to
get to do that and drink form the I don't we got to come up with a better name than energy drink
for the go what we will think about but but it's going to be called dack savage dack savage
savage I like it so we know I know I didn't get this job we're proved but the background is okay it's
camo oh no no it's a lightweight camo I've seen it okay yeah you said it to me cool or you
you were beat it be little mighty senator oh yeah I guess I guess we yeah yeah no it looks awesome
so that's going to production pretty quick well how would you describe that flavor
well he really likes doctor pepper interesting so it's like a like a where they call
a chan chair in the window yeah black chair in the middle there you go awesome also on it for
fitness gear kettlebells battle ropes rings maces steel bells you know all this kind of
would you call that new age workout is a good option obviously yeah it's like old school
right back right yeah yeah it's weird especially like kettlebells how they kind of came back
like with a vengeance yeah they did oh yeah did I resend you will let their medicine ball that we
were making no let me say you know but I saw one in the mountain training facility okay there you go
how did you good work out in there the other morning yeah yeah I did have a good work out we heard
morning yeah this is the day that echo slept oh shit you got a day that you got a
what you got the high you okay so echo was we we had a long we we flew from California to Boston
we recorded a podcast in Boston once we got done in Boston we drove it was early late night
early morning drove to Maine what to we stayed up late that night for some reason too oh yeah
then we went to your house we hung out then we went back and so we got to bed it wasn't that
late of a night we had to bed at like 10 o'clock 10 30 so I wake up in the morning I'm in Maine
I'm stoked I'm at the mountain training facility and I go downstairs you got and it was one of
those things I just had just figured out a good little workout with the equipment the cheddar went
you guys had an abolk bullgirium bag 28 kilogram kettlebell which is which is in between I have 24
I have 32 so I had a little meat you know just as little mix it up I was gonna up the reps you know
to try some other movements and so I'm down there getting after it's 430 I get done with that
and I was cranking up some music I was cranking up some rock and roll yeah yeah a little playlist
yeah a little some dansic some kaias and then it just plain whatever I get done I go upstairs shower
get done and I have two documents that I got to edit so I edit these documents and it's you know it
takes a while but two legit full documents I'm editing get done with that and then I look at my
watch that was the morning we talked for like two hours we talked for two hours after I don't
work I went for a run I actually went for that run down you would towards your old house yeah
I went for a nice long run I get done with all this stuff and I look at my watch and indeed
and and echo are still asleep and I go that's weird that you still asleep and it's two it's 1240
in the afternoon and at first I know movement so I send my text like so I send my text like
hey are you guys alive like kind of calling them out and then I think to myself wait a second
maybe they it's been 14 hours they must be dead they must be dead and I got like a little nervous
and I'm like they're going to carbon monoxide poison like I get it okay I sleep less right
than a normal person cool I got some weird genetics cool I sleep five hours this is three times
that right there's no way a person can see that long I think there's carbon monoxide
pores and then we don't fight cold bodies I go in there and they're just like echoes you know
like oh this is really tired oh yeah so there it was nice nonetheless anyway on it yeah on it
that's where you get the cool stuff get up as they did come back I do have a 28 pound or kilogram
kettlebell that's like what 62 I kind of liked it man from I kind of like yeah I kind of liked
having a little intermediary the problem is I can go overboard with stuff as we know and I'm
increased just until you die not only no just get like I'll have every kettlebell imaginable
oh yeah I do I have the whole spectrum and yeah but man it's worth it because like you can
modulate like throughout the whole work out especially if you're doing kettlebells which I highly
recommend by the way to kettlebells Pete I've just started recently just just like swinging them
yeah you should be swinging a nice light weight because you got your back situation
swing a nice light weight and it is so good for you man it feels good you know here's
thing about kettlebell swings you won't feel this because you're going light but you think to yourself
oh I got whatever I got my 40 kilogram kettlebell no factor I'll swing this thing you know it's
going to be pretty easy and the first six of them it is easy you're like what is this yeah this
by the time you get to 16 you're like okay yep then you get to 24 you're like okay yep
I see what's going on yeah it's it kicks you yeah kicks you good even on the rolling machine
you got a different rolling machine but on a concept too my rolling machine when you start you're like
I'm gonna blast this thing out and it takes a minute for your for your energy system what's
that first energy system that you're using yeah like the ATP that immediate sprint one
and you're like using that and but then it gets used up yes you're anaerobic that's
where your anaerobic system gets used up and then you're just sucking but you think you're
Superman for the first you know I'm a little belly meters do you usually roll it just depends
on what I'm doing just depends what I'm doing you know and I use it usually for sprinting I'm
usually not in there go for 20 minutes I've been doing a little bit when I couldn't run
because my knee I was rolling a little bit more and I was using minimum I wasn't going
to full range of motion but anyways so how long you going I go 30 minutes yeah that's cool
I try to 8000 meters yeah that's great minutes that's just consistent so yeah yeah I
did I I did one the other night because that the the mountain or treat where you had the
great workout that was our original factor yeah all the big timbers and stuff of course
and I uh I've been working out in the evenings and I did one the other night it was like a
home and I was really late and I just kept all the lights out and I rode in the pitch black could
you see the monitor or anything no and I just rode until you felt like I rode it and I actually
rode against my shadow because it was just a little bit of light behind me casting a shadow on
the wall and I just just like chasing my shadow and it was the best workout I had no idea how long
I had rode I just knew like 30 minutes I said the timer for in the pitch black and
it was freaking phenomenal I just like you did set the timer my phone timer yeah and it just went off
my phone so you had no idea it was just a puddle on it's what I was doing, it's kind of kind of
spiritual, right? it's exactly how you just like you see what I got some books I got a new book
Leadership strategy and tactics field manual that is available for pre-order right now.
If you want to get a first-of-disch, then you shorter right now. If you don't,
well it doesn't really matter what you do. Is that a hard copy? Oh, yes.
Oh, yes. It is. Yeah. It's a hard cover book. Yeah. It's not the same size as the original field manual.
It's smaller so that people can carry it. That's one of the things that when you look to field
manual like, well, do we want to be able to carry it? I'm like, yeah, probably. This one is to be used
in the field leadership. What are some of the things that the chapter name? So it's broken down
like this. There's 80 chapters. Holy shit. Yeah. So there's 80 chapters, but they're short. Got it.
Heading chapters. Where you go. And it's all about leadership. It's my boss's micro-management. What do I do?
How would this work for for some of my floor managers? Because they're plugged into the training
program, the Ashline Front Training Program, the online program, which has been awesome.
You know, but it would be nice because they can't, they can't like be on that well, they're
operating. We call them operators, right? Well, they're operating, but if they did have like a book
that it was like that. That's what it is. That's why I made it. Yeah. And another thing is, I used to
build a say, if someone said, hey, you know, as far as practical application of these principles,
you know, what do I do if my, if I got a guy that's, if I got a guy that's got a lot of potential,
but he's not doing what he should be doing, what should I do? And I used to just be able to say,
hey, just listen, you know, go listen to podcasts. And when there was 20 podcasts, it's like,
oh, cool, you know, you listen to the podcast. Now if I tell someone, oh, the answer is in the podcast,
I'm basically assigning them over 500 hours. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting. It's inappropriate, right?
So I had to take all this information and like distill it down. So you can say,
you just look it up. It's highly indexed. Okay. So you can just look up. That's cool. The subject
and boom go. So totally pragmatic. So would, if for, for like our, our managers, our floor managers,
would you say that the book replaces the online training or they serve two different purposes?
They serve two different purposes. Here's the facts. You, you, you want to, you don't get good at
anything through one direction of training. How much better you, how much better you at, how
much better you at an arm lock if you learn it from four different instructors? Oh, yeah, you're,
your life better. How much better are you at any learning a subject if you learn three books
about a subject instead of one? Oh, yeah. infinitely better. It's not just better. It's,
it's exponentially better because you're able to compare and contrast what you learn the first time
with what you learn in the second time. You see it from another angle. So you see it one dimensional.
You see it two dimensional on the third time you read a book about the same subject. You see it
for the third dimension. The fourth time now you're seeing the fourth dimension of things and that
continues to go. So all these things. So they need both. All these things are an effort to give the
different perspectives and different angles on these subjects because the better you get it them,
just like training you to. If, if you, the more you, the more time you spend on bottom and
inside control, the better you get it handling it. The more time you spend dealing with different
leadership problems, the better you get at it. The more different angles you can see, the better you
get at it. So that's the purpose. But I would say the initial ideal is like listen, people need to
be able to apply these principles. They need, because here's another thing people read,
extreme ownership. They, they actually understand the principles. They can explain the principles
back to you. But as far as overlaying those principles and even overlaying the examples onto what
they're dealing with, sometimes people, sometimes some people have a hard time making those things
overlay properly. And so here it is. Instead of saying here's the principle overlay it on your
thing. It's like here's what it will look like right now when you put it there. It's more, it's more
direct. You don't have to, you can do less. You can, you can, you can, it's just more direct.
So that's the leadership strategy and tactics field manual. I did just get a note from my publisher
and they said this was superb. Super superb. And you know that's pretty cool. You get, you know,
when you bring a bunch of books into this book is superb. That's, especially from a publisher
that reads books all the time. And they don't have to send you that note. Like this is from someone
at the publishing company that doesn't, doesn't just send out notes, right? So it's pretty
cool. So they probably read it and are applying the strategies. Yeah. Yeah. They're probably like,
okay, I'm going to use this now. Yeah. Totally. Also, way the Warrior Kid 3, where there's a will,
you can get that right now, way the Warrior Kid 1, Mark's mission. How many people at Camp? How many
books, how many Warrior Kid books have you seen? He signed at Camp all over. Yeah, all of them. There's
people after people, after people, after people, those books are having such an incredible impact.
It's so amazing to see, I don't think there's anything that makes me feel better at this point
in my life than getting, showing us a parent, showing me a video of a little kid doing a pull-up
and then looking at the camera and saying, I'm a Warrior Kid. Yeah. That's badass. Just doesn't
get any better than that. I've been signing more kid books too. By the way, that's awesome. I didn't
write it by the way, man. I signed a few. That's awesome. I took the picture in the back that's
something. Got a manual. Confusion. Got to make a movie. We're working it. We're working it now.
Yep. And then this moment was Freedom Field Manual. That's another Field Manual. That's
one's directed at you individually. How to get after it. The audio version is on MP3. It's not
unautable. Extreme ownership and dichotomy leadership. The first two books where you learn the principles.
You have to know the principles. If you don't know the principles, applying them doesn't make any
sense to you. So, extreme ownership and dichotomy leadership get these principles into your head
so that you can apply them at your business, at your life. They work. They work. That's another
thing I hear all the time from people. They say, you know, I've been using it works. It works.
I'll give me specific examples of how it works. I had this customer call me and they said,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And I said, you know what? That's my fault. And they said,
you know what? I probably should have given you a better heads up. It works. It works.
We got our leadership consultancy. We're just called echelon front, go to echelon front.com.
If you have problems in your organization of any kind of any kind, they are leadership problems
and you need to help get your leadership squared away and the line and that is what we do at echelon
front. echelon front.com. We got EF online. Do you go? Do you share the size of clients you work
with? Like, do you let people know like, you guys are on the road? Or I should say around the world
all the time helping companies become better leaders, big companies. Like sometimes we're going
on the phone, you're like, oh, I'm here. So, then I say, like, oh, I'm here. Like, do people actually
understand the impact you're just having on leadership in corporate America as a whole? Maybe I
don't do a great job of explaining that. We work with the largest companies in the world.
And we also work with smaller companies as well. And if you're so small that it's out of the price
range for you as a company, guess what? We got something called the master. You can sign up and
come to one of our masters where we teach these principles. You can bring three, four people in your
leadership team. If you've got a company of, you know, 20 people, you can bring three, four of
your leaders and you kind of get that initiated. And then you can use something called the F online,
which you are using. Yeah, we use it. Yeah, and my, you know, and it's nice because before,
like, it's always come to me, come to me, come to me, come to me, come to me, you know, and helping
helping our our leaders, which is basically everybody in the factory, become better leaders.
And to learn leadership principles. But now they can go online and then they come to me with
questions that have, right? So it's honestly it doesn't take as much time. We're sure wonderful.
So the efficiencies are going up. You know what I did at first? They were, you know, a few
Jill, the one that's stitching here in Jan. And a few others are like, when can we start? Can we
do this on company time? That was the first question. Can we, and of course, we don't have
computers set up in everything. And I was like, yes, yes, you can. Because I wanted them to know
that I'm invested in this. For sure. And once I, and so I was using the leadership techniques
to teach leadership. Yes. And then once they saw that I was in, then they went home and then they
got online. Yeah. And I was like, now they're doing it on their own time. Because I was invested
in them doing it on this, on our time. Of course, on company you want that. You think of the
cost benefit and the ROI we get at origin, you get at origin because of the leadership.
Yep. It's just the way it is. Yep. Yep. Absolutely. It's good. Awesome. Awesome stuff.
What else we got? We got. So yeah, if you can't come to, if you can't, if you can't hire
us on front, go to the master. The next one is taking place December 4th and 5th and Sidney.
We're about to release the follow on dates for 2020 as soon as we can. The thing is, here's the deal.
They all sell out. They all sell out 100%. And it's not like, hey, it's sold out, but we can fit in
eight more people. No, it's sold out and we no one else will be coming. So when I hear a crazy statistic,
yes, somebody said to me today, they know how many Americans are us like as 300 million Americans.
They're like, how many people are at this immersion camp? And I said, well, 300 per session. He's
like so one in a million. And I said, yeah, and we had the registration off three months early.
How many people do you let into the master? It looks like it depends on the size of the venue,
but it's anywhere between 700 and 850. But the Australia one, we have less. We have a smaller
venue. We just couldn't get the size of venue that we need. So we have less. But so two in a
million, you're letting something like that. You know what I mean? It's, yeah, it's a solid value.
Add it is ridiculous. Yeah. Yeah. So come and check out the master. And then, of course, we have
EF Overwatch, which we are, I had to talk about on this podcast, taking people that have experience
in leadership and putting them into companies in a civilian sector. So if you're a company that needs
leadership or you're a leader that needs to move on to your next mission in life, go to EF Overwatch.com.
And if you haven't heard enough of us, if you haven't heard enough stories about Jiu Jitsu,
shoes, jeans, whatever else you can find us on the in-or-webs. We're on Twitter, one on its
screen. We're on Dine Fusionbock. Oh, Facebook, oh, I have a question. It's like, it's a
voice. You look real concerned. You're like, wait, wait, wait, wait. What are we
up? I thought I was Facebook. Yeah, he was. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
I know what it was. It's hot. Pete is on Instagram. He's at, I was forced to go on Instagram.
But now that's your primary. Well, I mean, I'm, I'm, I'm, yeah, I'm not, I'm what I mean,
I promise. Well, that's what you seem to do your most activity on. You think?
Where do you think you do most activity on? Origins. Oh, no, I'm saying Instagram. Yeah, Instagram is
where you do most of your, yeah, you do do Twitter. Yeah, because I throw Twitter your
direction. Yeah, people say you throw it out. Hey, one of the jeans coming out, I say
as soon as or at origin BJJ releases on. Yeah, and then I'll jump on. Then you'll do. No, I do most
my activity on Instagram. So, and those two are at origin USA and then also at Pete M.
Roberts. Yeah, Pete dot M dot M dot Roberts. That's a pain in the ass isn't it? Yeah.
Somehow those two people that got their names. One's name is Adele Charles and one's name is
that Joko Willink and all the stuff that we're doing right now. We would not be doing any of it without
our military out there protecting the freedoms that we have. So, thank you all for holding the
line and also to our police and our law enforcement and our firefighters and our paramedics and
our EMTs and our dispatchers and the correctional officers and the board of patrol and the secret
service and all the first responders that are out there, you're the ones that are protecting us
here at home and protecting our way of life. So, thank you for what you do and to everyone else that's
out there, there is much to be done. And I'll tell you what no matter what you hear about how
much competition there is in the world, the fact of the matter is there aren't that many people
that are actually willing to do the work. It's you. So, get up, get to work and get after it.
And until next time, the speed Roberts and Echo and Joko out.